---
keywords: fastai
title: "Algorithms and Logic"
description: Algorithms and logic
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
author: Taiyo Iwazaki
layout: notebook
---

Unit 2… Binary/Data Terms
---------------
<mark>Bits:</mark> A given byte contains either bits or a code. A designation of 'bits' means that each individual bit has its own meaning, independent of the meaning of other bits in the byte
<mark>Bytes</mark>: a group of binary digits or bits (usually eight) operated on as a unit.
<mark>Hexadecimal / Nibbles:</mark> In communications, a nibble is sometimes referred to as a quadbit. As with any nibble, the quadbit is 4 bits and has 16 possible combinations.

<mark>Binary Numbers:</mark> According to digital electronics and mathematics, a binary number is defined as a number that is expressed in the binary system or base 2 numeral system. It describes numeric values by two separate symbols; 1 (one) and 0 (zero)
<mark>Unsigned Integer:</mark> Unsigned Integers (often called "uints") are just like integers (whole numbers) but have the property that they don't have a + or - sign associated with them. Thus they are always non-negative (zero or positive)
<mark>Signed Integer:</mark> positive, negative, whole number, or zero
<mark>Floating Point:</mark> A floating point number, is a positive or negative whole number with a decimal point.

Binary Data Abstractions: 
<mark>Boolean:</mark> a binary variable, having two possible values called “true” and “false.”
<mark>ASCII:</mark> ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange) is the most common character encoding format for text data in computers and on the internet.
<mark>Unicode:</mark> an international encoding standard for use with different languages and scripts, by which each letter, digit, or symbol is assigned a unique numeric value that applies across different platforms and programs.
<mark>RGB:</mark>
red, green, and blue
RGB (red, green, and blue) refers to a system for representing the colors to be used on a computer display. 

<mark>Data Compression: </mark>Data compression is a reduction in the number of bits needed to represent data.
<mark>Lossy:</mark> involving or causing some loss of data. Lossy compression is a way of getting even smaller squeezed files than lossless. 
<mark>Lossless</mark> (not discussed yet)

Unit 3… Algorithm/Programming Terms
-------------------
Variables
Data Types
Assignment Operators

Managing Complexity with Variables:  
Lists
2D Lists
Dictionaries
Class
Algorithms
Sequence
Selection
Iteration
Expressions, Comparison Operators, Booleans Expressions and Selection, Booleans Expressions and Iteration, Truth Tables
Characters, Strings, Length, Concatenation, Upper, Lower, Traversing Strings
Python If, Elif, Else conditionals; Nested Selection Statements
Python For, While loops with Range, with List
Combining loops with conditionals to Break, Continue
Procedural Abstraction, Python Def procedures, Parameters, Return Values