---
title: "4A Notes"
description: Notes
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
author: Taiyo Iwazaki
---


## Setters and Getters

- Setters and getters are methods used in object-oriented programming to control access to the properties of an object.

- A setter is a method that sets the value of a property, while a getter is a method that retrieves the value of a property.

- Setters and getters provide a layer of abstraction between the object's internal implementation and external use.

- Setters and getters can be used to restrict the values that can be assigned to a property. For example, a setter can validate that a value is within a certain range before assigning it to a property.

- Setters and getters can also be used to hide the implementation details of a property. For example, a getter can retrieve the value of a property from a database or other source without exposing the details of how the value is retrieved.

- In many programming languages, setters and getters are implemented using special syntax, such as the use of property accessors or the use of the "set" and "get" keywords.

- When using setters and getters, it's important to follow best practices for naming conventions. For example, a setter method should typically be named with the prefix "set" followed by the name of the property, while a getter method should be named with the prefix "get" followed by the name of the property.

- Setters and getters can be used in a wide range of programming contexts, including desktop applications, web applications, and mobile applications.

