---
title: "Project Approval"
description: Project Approval
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
author: Taiyo Iwazaki
---

# Beneficial and Harmful effects of my Project:

Our Purpose: Many people, especially at our age, are looking for a car that will suit their needs (ie. price range, number of seats, & reliability). For many, it can be tough to research a car that fits their given criteria.

With CarHub, users can easily look through variety of cars and find the car that fits their requirements

## Beneficial effects of my project

- One beneficial effect of my project is that people of all ages and search for and compare cars without having to go to each individual brand's website and reduce clutter to find the most optimal car for them.

- Another beneficial effect of my project is that there are many types of specifications for each car so the user knows what each car's capabilities.

- Our website can provide accurate pricing information so users (especially teens) can know if they are getting their money's worth for their car or if they are overspending.

## Harmful effects of my team's project:

Although our API claims to have the most accurate data on cars, sometimes the data can be outdated which means prices, certain models and other factors may not be fully up to date. For example, some underground car brands such as lotus may not be included in the search even though they make great cars. Another example of why or Project may be harmful is the quotes for used cars of new cars may be either over or under MSRP and could hurt the user if they are in the process of purchasing a vehicle. This is also harmful to dealerships that like to mark up the price of cars because they may be unable to make sales due to our pricing quotes (which if inaccurate could hurt the user).

## What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school? What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.

The use of internet blockers at routers has both advantages and disadvantages. On one hand, it allows for parental control, improves productivity by preventing access to non-work related websites, and enhances security by blocking malicious websites. On the other hand, it can restrict access to information and limit freedom of speech and expression, cause inconvenience by blocking necessary websites, and require technical expertise to set up and maintain. The lack of admin passwords on lab machines at school also has its pros and cons. It enhances security by preventing students from installing unauthorized software and making unauthorized changes, and simplifies management for teachers. However, it also limits students' ability to install necessary software, save their work, and access their files, and can lead to frustration and a lack of control over their work environment. The digital divide is a personal concern as it exacerbates existing social and economic inequalities by limiting access to information, educational resources, and essential services for those who are already disadvantaged. This can have a negative impact on individuals, communities, and society as a whole.



